Add a tutorial for the new ParameterEventHandler class (#1123)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Monitoring-For-Parameter-Changes-CPP.rst

Monitoring for parameter changes (C++)
======================================

**Goal:** Learn to use the ParameterEventHandler class to monitor and respond to parameter changes.

**Tutorial level:** Beginner

**Time:** 20 minutes

**Minimum Platform:** Galactic

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

> Often a node needs to respond to changes to its own parameters or another node's parameters. The ParameterEventHandler class makes it easy to listen for parameter changes so that your code can respond to them. This tutorial will show you how to use the C++ version of the ParameterEventHandler class to monitor for changes to a node's own parameters as well as changes to another node's parameters.

Reviewer: style nit: One sentence per line. It makes future diffs easier to read.

Same comment applies throughout the document.

Prerequisites
-------------

Before starting this tutorial, you should first complete the following tutorials:

- :ref:`ROS2Params`
- :ref:`CppParamNode`

In addition, you must be running the Galactic distribution of ROS2.

Tasks
-----

In this tutorial, you will create a new package to contain some sample code, write some C++ code to use the ParameterEventHandler class, and test the resulting code.

1 Create a package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

First, open a new terminal and :ref:`source your ROS 2 installation <ConfigROS2>` so that ``ros2`` commands will work.

> Navigate into the ``dev_ws`` directory created in a previous tutorial (or follow `these instructions <https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace/#create-a-new-directory>`_ if you no longer have the directory and need to create it again).

Reviewer: Should this be a relative link? Maybe @clalancette would know.

Reviewer 2: Yes, this link should be relative.

.. code-block:: C++

    SampleNodeWithParameters()
    : Node("node_with_parameters")
    {
      this->declare_parameter("an_int_param", 0);

      // Create a parameter subscriber that can be used to monitor parameter changes
      // (for this node's parameters as well as other nodes' parameters)
      param_subscriber_ = std::make_shared<rclcpp::ParameterEventHandler>(this);

      // Set a callback for this node's integer parameter, "an_int_param"
      auto cb = [this](const rclcpp::Parameter & p) {
          RCLCPP_INFO(
            this->get_logger(), "cb: Received an update to parameter \"%s\" of type %s: \"%ld\"",
            p.get_name().c_str(),
            p.get_type_name().c_str(),
            p.as_int());
        };
      cb_handle_ = param_subscriber_->add_parameter_callback("an_int_param", cb);
    }

The ``ParameterEventHandler``'s add_parameter_callback method returns a callback handle that is stored in a member variable. This handle is used in the ``~SampleNodeWithParameters`` destructor to remove the callback when the node is destroyed.

.. code-block:: C++

    ~SampleNodeWithParameters()
    {

>       param_subscriber_->remove_parameter_callback(cb_handle_);

Reviewer: I would expect the callback to be unregistered naturally during the destruction of `ParameterEventHandler`. Is this not the case?

Author: Yes, that's true. It really isn't necessary to explicitly call remove unless you're dynamically adding and removing handlers (which isn't typically the case). I'll remove them.

    }

Following the ``SampleNodeWithParameters`` is a typical ``main`` function which initializes ROS, spins the sample node so that it can send and receive messages, and then shuts down after the user enters ^C at the console.

.. code-block:: C++

    int main(int argc, char** argv)
    {
      rclcpp::init(argc, argv);
      rclcpp::spin(std::make_shared<SampleNodeWithParameters>());
      rclcpp::shutdown();

      return 0;
    }

2.2 Add executable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To build this code, first open the ``CMakeLists.txt`` file and add the following lines of code below the dependency ``find_package(rclcpp REQUIRED)``

.. code-block:: console

    add_executable(parameter_event_handler src/parameter_event_handler.cpp)
    ament_target_dependencies(parameter_event_handler rclcpp)

    install(TARGETS
      parameter_event_handler
      DESTINATION lib/${PROJECT_NAME}
    )

3 Build and run
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It's good practice to run ``rosdep`` in the root of your workspace (``dev_ws``) to check for missing dependencies before building:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

>         rosdep install -i --from-path src --rosdistro <distro> -y

Reviewer: I think if they've already sourced a ROS installation, then the variable ROS_DISTRO will be set appropriately.

```suggestion
        rosdep install -i --from-path src --rosdistro $ROS_DISTRO -y
```

.. code-block:: console

     ros2 run cpp_parameter_event_handler parameter_event_handler

Next, from another teminal (with ROS initialized), run the parameter_blackboard demo application, as follows:

.. code-block:: console

     ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp parameter_blackboard

Finally, from a third terminal (with ROS initialized), let's set a parameter on the parameter_blackboard node:

.. code-block:: console

     ros2 param set parameter_blackboard a_double_param 3.45

Upon executing this command, you should see output in the parameter_event_handler window, indicating that the callback function was invoked upon the parameter update:

.. code-block:: console

    [INFO] [1606952588.237531933] [node_with_parameters]: cb2: Received an update to parameter "a_double_param" of type: double: "3.45"

Summary
-------

You created a node with a parameter and used the ParameterEventHandler class to set a callback to monitor changes to that parameter. You also used the same class to monitor changes to a remote node. The ParameterEventHandler is a convenient way to monitor for parameter changes so that you can then respond to the updated values.

Next steps
----------

> Now that you have examined parameters and have some packages and ROS 2 systems of your own, the :ref:`next tutorial <Ros2Doctor>` will show you how to examine issues in your environment and systems in case you have problems.

Reviewer: I guess we should we update the previous tutorial to point to this tutorial.

Author: Moved to the Intermediate section so it's no longer in a series of content. Its now the last in the Intermediate section.

Monitoring for parameter changes (C++)
======================================

**Goal:** Learn to use the ParameterEventHandler class to monitor and respond to parameter changes.

**Tutorial level:** Beginner

**Time:** 20 minutes

**Minimum Platform:** Galactic

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

Often a node needs to respond to changes to its own parameters or another node's parameters.
The ParameterEventHandler class makes it easy to listen for parameter changes so that your code can respond to them.
This tutorial will show you how to use the C++ version of the ParameterEventHandler class to monitor for changes to a node's own parameters as well as changes to another node's parameters.

Prerequisites
-------------

Before starting this tutorial, you should first complete the following tutorials:

- :ref:`ROS2Params`
- :ref:`CppParamNode`

> In addition, you must be running the Galactic distribution of ROS2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, you must be running the Galactic distribution of ROS 2.
```

.. code-block:: console

     ros2 run cpp_parameter_event_handler parameter_event_handler

Next, from another teminal (with ROS initialized), run the parameter_blackboard demo application, as follows:

.. code-block:: console

     ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp parameter_blackboard

Finally, from a third terminal (with ROS initialized), let's set a parameter on the parameter_blackboard node:

.. code-block:: console

     ros2 param set parameter_blackboard a_double_param 3.45

Upon executing this command, you should see output in the parameter_event_handler window, indicating that the callback function was invoked upon the parameter update:

.. code-block:: console

    [INFO] [1606952588.237531933] [node_with_parameters]: cb2: Received an update to parameter "a_double_param" of type: double: "3.45"

Summary
-------

You created a node with a parameter and used the ParameterEventHandler class to set a callback to monitor changes to that parameter.
You also used the same class to monitor changes to a remote node.
The ParameterEventHandler is a convenient way to monitor for parameter changes so that you can then respond to the updated values.

Next steps
----------

> You've completed the Intermediate tutorials!

Reviewer: It doesn't look like our intermediate tutorials follow  the same "next steps" pattern as the beginner tutorials. Perhaps we can just remove this section, since it's plausible new tutorials will be added after this one in the future.

Reviewer 2: > Perhaps we can just remove this section, since it's plausible new tutorials will be added after this one in the future.

Agreed, for the intermediate tutorials just remove this section.

Author: Removed.
